They will come back.
So this whole section has been about iterators and it's still about iterators but more specifically
we're talking about generators.
Generators are iterators.
They're a subset of iterators.
Every generator is an iterator but not every iterator is a generator.
So what are they.
Well they're basically a quick and easy short way of creating iterators and they can be created in two
ways.
The first is with the generator functions which use the yield keyword will come back to that.
And the second is by using generator expressions which you may recall we talked about very briefly in
the built in function section of this course but let's start by talking about generator functions.
OK.
So generator functions are just a regular old function except instead of using the return word keyword.
We're using the yield keyword and instead of returning once a generator function can return more than
once or yield more than once.
And then finally when we call a regular function returns a return value when we call a generator function
it returns a generator.
So a generator function is just like it's a way of creating a generator which is an iterator.
It's very complicated confusing when you're explaining it when I'm explaining it like this.
Let's look at an example.
So here is our first generator generator function which returns a generator.
So I'm just going to copy this and actually go to a terminal open it up and paste it in.
OK.
So it's called count up to def count up to max.
And notice this is just a regular function syntax.
We start with count equal to 1.
Basically every time through we check is count less than or equal to max.
If it is yields count.
So what yields we'll do is it will return the value of count and then pause and it will stay that way
until next is called On count up to.
So it's an iterator so every time we call next when it hits yield it returns the value of count and
it stops right here doesn't even go to this line it stops right here.
But then next time it resumes then it adds one to account then it goes back around.
Does a while loop again yields count and then next time through adds 1 and so on.
So to use it if we just call count up to 5 for example there we go.
It's going to return to me a generator object.
So that's the special magic in Python.
If you write a function and you put yield in it anywhere instead of return it's going to give you a
generator object.
So this itself is not a generator.
This is a generator generator.
It's a generator function.
It creates a generator for us when we execute it.
OK.
So now if I save it to a variable let's just call it Gen.
It was called counter equals count up to five.
Once again I reference counter I can't execute it like this.
It's not callable.
What I do is I call next next on counter and it gives me one first time through next to and then three.
What's happening here is that it is keeping track of its state.
So unlike a regular function you run it once and you run it again the same thing happens.
It doesn't remember what happened last time.
This is different each time through and recall next.
It doesn't store everything in the past so it's not that it never has all of the data in memory at once.
One two three four five six or whatever the numbers are here.
But it keeps the most recent one it yields and stops and the next time through it discards that and
adds one and then it keeps that next time through.
It had Twan and keeps that.
So it's only really it only knows one thing at a time knows but it's storing one thing at a time.
Every time we call next.
It just gives us the next thing intel we keep going and we get that stop iteration so we could easily
write our own iterator which we've already done.
Actually the counter iterator in two videos we go where we had the class counter where you hear this
does basically the same thing except we can specify a low and a high.
In my example here we're specifying a high and that's it.
But instead of creating a class instead of setting up a Niton all of that we can do the same thing with
a generator function which returns a generator object generator object automatically has Next added
to it.
So if we looked at counter Actually let's just do help counter you can see it has next Dondre next and
under it are already set up.
So we don't have to do that.
So this is a really easy way of creating an iterator.
But remember we don't have all of the data at once we get it one thing at a time.
We can loop through it.
So let me make a new counter count up to 10 and we can loop through it for Nahm and counter
print.
And we get 1 through 10.
Fred did the same thing.
But I called Next on counter once and then I do my for loop we get to through 10.
When we create the generator we start off count or whatever it was was a variable called I forgot yes
count set to 1 and that's the only thing that it yields to us next time through it yields 2.
So there's no going back once we called Next the first time here.
Counter is set to 1 and so next time through it goes to 2.
So we don't we can't go back to the beginning and we can re-initialize a new instance of that generator
but otherwise we've gone through it.
And so it just goes to the end.
So every time Nexxus called it moves forward one space.
And of course as we've already seen in a for loop it automatically calls next.
So it's going to call next on counter over and over and over.
And then it's going to handle that error because remember if we call next on counter once it's exhausted
we get stopped the Stop the duration error.
But the for loop automatically catches that and just breaks the loop instead of giving us this.
OK.
So just to reiterate all of this reiterate very funny called what we have a generator is returned from
a generator function.
So it's just a way of making an iterator quickly.
We never have to determine what happens when we call next.
We don't have to.
What we don't want to find next.
We don't define it or we never are raising the stop iteration error.
We don't have to do any of that like we did over here.
Instead we just to find a function call it whatever you want.
And in our case we're just doing a counter but we could do squares we could do prime numbers.
We're not limited just to working with numbers by the way.
But we could do any sort of sequence or series of numbers or data as long as we could call next over
and over in a logical pattern.
So we don't have to do any of that though.
All we define is some code that should run and yield and wherever that yield is it's going to stop immediately
return the value that we specify.
Stop execution and just wait.
So there running in place just while running is the wrong term because it's not actually doing anything
it's just sitting there and it takes up way way way less memory than if we if we did the entire thing
as a list which we absolutely could do counter-IED goes up to 10.
If I did list of counter it goes through every item and add it to a list and gives it to us.
So if we need all the values at once we have access to them.
But if we're only using each value one at a time to do something we don't have to turn into a list.
And that's where this kind of ties into generator expressions which you haven't talked about yet.
We will and two videos from now.
But if you remember back when we talked about some the built in functions some I mentioned you don't
always have to pass in a list of data if you don't need that list anywhere else you can pass in a generator
expression and it's just easier takes up less memory.
It's faster.
OK.
So we'll get there.
Can jump in Ahead their generator function returns a generator generator is an iterator is safe quick
and easy way.
I hope that made sense is kind of something I'm scared about in this video.
It's just difficult.
Kind of weird stuff.
I'll get some feedback and comments if you have questions.
See you in the next video.
We're going to define another type of generator that is an infinite generator.